system design concepts
1. Horizontal Scaling
	a. load balancer
	b. auto scaling groups
2. Vertical Scalling
3. Logging service
4. Metrics service, we will get metrics from logs, and cloud resources
5. alerts service, we will set up alters based on the metrics

Design Requirements of System Design 

In a interview, we have to analyse and weigh the trade off and figure out, which option is the best,
its really about the thought process.

Designs Requirements

1. Move Data move videos, comments,
2. Store Data store videos efficiently
3. Transform Data encoding the videos, aggregating the no. of views, metrics.


These three operations encapsulates all of the functionalities of most of the applications

It pretty much boils down to these three things


Design of Large applications, need to done in careful way beacuse bad design choices are 
very difficult to refractor later.

 design of database is important

 we should know the general architecture of the application.


 What is a good design?

 Think in terms of trade offs.

 How do we measure the trade offs

 Availability

What is a good design?

we have to think about trade offs?

1. Availability, uptime of the server
	it is commmonly used to define the SLO.
	Service Level Objective

	SLA - for Database Service Level Agreement.
2. Reliability
	is the probabilty than our system wont fail.
	single server has higher probability of the system or server to fail
	so adding a another server increases the reliability of the system or server.
3. Fault Tolerence
	if we have higher redundancy or redundant servers, we have increased our fault tolerance.
	which will increase our fault tolerance.
4. Redundancy. we have a second additional server in a different part for the geographic area,
 	which will take over in the event of failure.
5. throughput is measured in request per second, how many requests our system or server
 	could handle, maybe a single server could handle 100 req/s
 	we can increase throughput by scaling, vertical or horizontal scaling.
6.	


azure ai studio 
windows copilot
copilot
microsoft fabric  



